you've praised the president's tax cut
calling it a win dat merit the American
economies back I guess no I have said I
have said that it is a wind a tax bill
it was targeted in a big way to help
corporations so it helps Berkshires
million shareholders isn't what I would
have done if I was going to have a tax
cut but so as an individual I do not
agree with the philosophy that led to it
but as a steward at Berkshire Hathaway I
have to tell you that it does our
shareholders a lot of good I see I was
because I was going to ask you I mean
there must be a cost to this is there's
always a glossary I mean it sort of
suggests that the savings from the
government then all that money was maybe
miss spent by the government I mean what
is there a cost of downside to the tax
cut well there's always I mean it's just
sorry Don if you take taxes to zero for
every country you wouldn't be issuing a
lot of bonds the but there's you can't
ever do just one thing in economics you
probably Canada in physics either
there's a butterfly effect but in
economics you always have to say and
then what and if you give a large break
to one group it's not free if I were
going to cut the revenues of the United
States I would have I would have helped
a different group of people but as I say
it is very helpful to Berkshire it's not
that we were non-competitive before but
our shareholders are better off Don
Harding one of our readers viewers asks
so have you increased salaries and
benefits for Berkshire employees like
some other companies have done in the
wake of the announcement about some of
our portfolio companies have done that
but but we're not paying dividends we're
not repurchasing shares we're investing
and we'll use the money for investment I
wonder Warren what you think of
President Trump's tweets particularly
about the stock market and one of our
readers asked you on each in from San
Mateo how Warren Buffett would rate
president travel well I'm a great the
press but I would say that communication
is enormous ly important for a president
going back to Roosevelt in the 1930s
every family in the country was sort of
huddled around his radio I mean yeah you
had the the big networks you could you
were talking to everybody and now it's
much more diffused than obviously
President Trump feels that he does not
like it filtered through the traditional
news media so he's gonna do it directly
I believe communications enormously
important for a CEO and I like to talk
to our shareholders directly if I were
frustrated with my ability to talk to
Mike the people I'm responsible for I
would try to figure out a way to do it
directly and obviously I have that
president feels that way so can we talk
a little bit about a healthcare
initiative have you told the story about
how that came about did Jamie call you
up on a conference call with Jeff how
did it happen I think probably you know
I can't answer with a hundred percent
precision but I know my impression is
that it it came about because there's a
so quite young works for us Todd combs
is also on JP Morgan's Moreland and Todd
and I've talked a lot about health care
and and I think Todd developed some
ideas about how something like this
might work and I think he he's the one
that actually talked to Jamie and is
this really just for these three
companies or is it going to be a model
for the rest of the healthcare system
what's the point I hope if we can figure
out a way to have better care at lower
cost and stem the constant rise as a
percentage of GDP I hope every company
in the United States that steals the
idea of rama's and and just it will also
want to touch on crypto currencies I
know that you've had some negative
feelings about them but now Wall Street
institutions seem to be dipping their
toes in and I wonder a if you change
your mind at all and be the biggest one
of the biggest mysteries in America what
did you tell Katy Perry you guys talked
about crypto currencies but none of us
know what you guys said you too we did
okay I will answer your question about
it but there's two kinds of items that
people buy and think they're investing
one really is investing and the other is
it if you buy something
a farm an apartment house or the
business and look to the asset itself to
determine whether you've done something
what the farm produces what what the
business earns and so on you don't
really care what the stock markets open
you can do that on a private basis in
fact you do it on a private basis of you
buy a farm or department house generally
and it's a perfectly satisfactory
investment you look at the investment
itself to deliver the return to you now
if you buy something like bitcoin or or
some some cryptocurrency you don't
really you don't have any English
producing you're just hoping the next
guy pays more and the next and your only
feel you'll find the next guy to pay
more if he thinks he's gonna find
somebody that that's gonna pay the more
now if you ban trading in farms you
could still buy farms and have a
perfectly decent investment if you ban
trading in apartment houses or even in
equities if you abandon trading at
Berkshire Hathaway for the next five
years our investors would do fine you
know over time and but if you ban
trading in tulip bulbs you know or if
you ban trading and in some Bitcoin
which nobody knows exactly what it is
people would say well why in the world
would I buy it and you aren't investing
when you do that you're speculating
there's nothing wrong with it if you
want to gamble somebody else will come
along to pay more money tomorrow that's
one kind of game that is not investing
interesting I want to ask you some
questions for the Chinese audience first
of all can you say me how to them penny
how how much do you think the Chinese
economy and markets will ultimately
become like the United States how much
convergence do you think there will be I
really don't know that answer to that I
what I do know is they have found the
secret sauce for themselves just like we
found the secret sauce a couple
centuries ago and so they have had an
economy in the last 60 years or
thereabouts they have unleashed the
potential of their citizenry and where
for really centuries they did not
progress that much economically for
overwhelming portion of the population
what they've done in the last 50 or six
years is a total economic miracle I
never would have thought it could have
happened but the true
this they're smart as we are they work
as hard as we are and and and they can
have a growth and economy from a lower
base that will exceed ours
percentage-wise for a long time and I
mean they're they're destined for a fine
economic future just like we are
shifting gears Warren I want to ask you
about women in the workplace and the me
to movement what role can men play to
advance women in their careers in
business and in the economy well and I
had an have two sisters that are
absolutely smart as I am inand and
better personalities and better know
they were born around my time of 1930
and and they were told them very early
and marry well you know that was the
unseen message I mean nobody ever said
it that way but so I have seen half of
the United States as Talent basically
put off to the side and it's one of the
things makes me optimistic about
Americans when I look at what we
accomplished using half our talent for a
couple of centuries and now I think of
doubling the talent that that
effectively employed at least has the
chance to be it makes me very optimistic
about this country and good managers are
scarce
you know talent was it's always rarer
and you better get used every bit of it
that you can find it certainly the way
I've felt personally all my life skip
from Baltimore wants to know if you
collect Social Security
I collected and my wife was now eligible
and she's supposed to be collecting but
she hasn't got her check yet but but
we'll we'll see what she should be
getting here pretty soon
Asia from Columbus Ohio ass plenty of
time left Warren but got to ask you what
do you want to be remembered for as a
teacher yeah that would be very
flattering if I would feel that that was
on my tombstone because I benefited from
terrifically from teachers not all
teachers who were employed as teacher
but teachings of all kinds but the
people spending their time too
pass along what they have learned to a
teacher not a great investor yeah I
don't know anything at investing that
that's complicated I've just been added
a long time I may just look at if I just
put that hundred and fourteen dollars
the SP I'd have $400,000 well I think
there's a little more to it than that
ask on from Papillion Nebraska says how
do you tell the difference between
reasonable and unreasonable fear so know
there's the stocks down maybe it should
be down or stocks down maybe it
shouldn't be down well you just keep
looking at the facts I mean you're
you're looking at a business that's the
important thing
you know you don't look at a stock chart
I looked at stock charts for years I
used to have a lot of funds week that I
was kind of groping around throw a
philosophy you look at the business I
mean how you decide if you own a half
interest with you some buddy of yours in
a McDonald's store how do you decide you
know whether it's a successful
investment well if if the stones two
feet out and there's no business today
to you you say well I made a terrible
deal no you look at how it's performing
as a business over time how it's doing
versus the competition you know all
right Warren Buffett thank you very much
for all of your time great talking to
you okay thanks for having me